When we look at this,
at the value of Bitcoin, I still think
part of the valuations we had,
especially end of last year when we were
around $120,000,
it was based on some fundamental
factors.
And it was also partly based on wishful
thinking. The fact that people still
expect the price to be higher. They
continue to
to increase their exposure to Bitcoin,
but it's based on nothing.
>> Hi Dallas.
>> Hi Miriam.
>> So today's show is interesting because
we're going to be talking about an asset
that many have considered in the past to
be a safe haven asset, and that's
Bitcoin. And I think that's appropriate
because we've had a lot of geopolitical
turmoil
this past week.
>> time for safe havens than
with what's going on these days.
>> But is Bitcoin a safe haven? That's
something that we will discuss later in
the show.
>> Yeah, it's a super interesting question.
But of course, what's right now kind of
occupying everybody's minds in the
market,
probably will be for the next couple of
weeks if timelines play out as expected,
is
Operation Epic Fury, the US's strikes on
Iran and the resulting kind of fallout
throughout the Middle East region. So,
off the bat,
stocks have not had, I would say
overall, an enormous reaction thus far.
There were some up days, some down days.
And surprisingly, that's actually what
you would expect based on prior kind of
geopolitical events.
>> Yeah, it's really interesting.
Analysts at Morgan Stanley looked at a
long
series of prior geopolitical events, the
start of various conflicts. And
actually, while there is volatility in
the short term, in after, you know, 1
month, 3 months,
>> Yeah.
>> uh
>> months, 12 months, you see stocks are
usually up after these conflicts. So,
that's um
pretty positive for those of us who just
own stocks and bonds and are holding on
tight and hoping that that that, you
know, diversified portfolio went out.
>> Yeah, as much as as as you're obviously
concerned with the the the human and
sort of political and broader dimensions
of all these things from an investment
point of view,
you probably shouldn't really do much of
anything if you're the kind of buy and
hold investor that I think a lot of our
our listeners are. An equity strategist
at Wells Fargo did a similar analysis
and they looked I was pretty interested
cuz they looked all the way back to
like, you know, kind of throughout the
20th century at geopolitical events. And
the average 1-year return on the S&P
was, you know, in the neighborhood of
7%, which is kind of what it is
historically anyway. So,
>> But, the one thing that we are seeing is
right now is a surge in oil prices.
>> That's right. That's why this conflict
does seem unique because it is happening
not just in the kind of oil-producing
region of the world, uh the Middle East
is one of the major oil-producing
regions, but it seems like the immediate
kind of aftermath has been worries about
oil infrastructure, shipping, and
production. Why why is that, Marion?
>> Well, so Iran is only 3 to 4% of global
oil production itself, but, you know, we
have all become armchair experts on a
special passageway that's called the
Strait of Hormuz, which is the
passageway through which 20% roughly of
global oil production goes, and that is
oil that's coming from the Gulf States.
Um so, it's a the region itself as a
whole is very important in the oil
production world. And effectively, the
Strait of Hormuz is closed right now
because there's just too much, you know,
risk for an oil tanker to be passing
through there.
>> Yeah, it seems like a
a critical way in which this conflict
will play out will be to what degree can
the US stop Iran from striking oil and
energy infrastructure around the region.
Already Brent crude futures as we're
talking on Thursday have been up about
15% over the week. That's not
necessarily like an epic move, but other
downstream prices like for example
diesel fuel prices futures
for those have already surged and diesel
prices of course pretty quickly
translate into
you know, consumer prices right you
know, the trucks that ship the things
that get to the store and whatnot. So so
that's
>> inflation.
>> And that means inflation and that's why
the possibility of an oil supply shock
is really I would say markets main
preoccupation not just because the price
of oil, but because of what it means for
inflation and we've seen US markets
really react
on that basis. So for example, the
futures market which predicts what
sort of interest rates might be in the
future.
Before
the strike started
that market was pricing in about a say
80% chance of the Fed cutting two times
or more this year.
That is now down to less than 50% and
what that means is that investors are
basically thinking that the Fed is going
to have its hands tied by worries about
even if inflation isn't actually
arriving that the concern about the
potential for price increases will stay
the Fed's hand and despite you know, a
Trump appointed Fed chair likely coming
into office at some point this year that
that the market doesn't think the Fed
will have room to cut rates as
aggressively as it might have before
this started.
>> And the real risk of course is that this
is not a short-lived conflict as
President Trump has said and that it
drags on because you know, there's no
way to know exactly how long it will
drag on and if it does drag on that's
when the concerns around inflation will
spike and you know, when we may see a
bigger sell-off in stocks and bonds
again.
>> Well, and interestingly, looking at
what's happening in the US Treasury
market and also the market for gold,
those are two typical safe havens,
right? You would think of those things
as people things people buy when they're
worried about kind of tensions or
geopolitical risks elsewhere, but
neither of those markets have done very
well in the aftermath. US 10-year US
Treasury yields have been going up.
That means the bonds are selling off.
Gold has not rallied. Gold has come down
and both of those things are related to
this concern about higher inflation and
higher interest rates. Obviously, higher
interest rates mean that your Treasury
bond isn't necessarily worth worth as
much. And gold, I mean, look, gold has
already rallied so enormously, right?
Past 5,000, which is just
a crazy sort of level. So so to some
extent, there's like, well, how much
higher could gold go?
>> people are saying, what else do I buy?
Where do I you know, where do I look to
you know, to be defensive?
>> Well, and that's why interestingly, when
you look under the hood of the stock
market, which as we mentioned has been
volatile but hasn't made really enormous
moves in either direction thus far,
some people are buying, of all things,
it seems software companies.
>> We talked about this a couple of weeks
ago on the podcast.
You know, software sold off a lot over
fears around AI business software. A lot
of people thought, oh, Anthropic
launched, you know, these new products,
people will you know, businesses will
not need to buy software anymore and I'm
going to sell my software stocks. And
software was sold somewhat
indiscriminately, you know, the entire
index cratered and now we see signs of
life. It's it's coming back. And
interestingly, Jeffries analyst Brent
Thill, who was our guest on that
episode, said now is a great buying
opportunity. So it may be that people
took the hint, not necessarily from
Brent, but maybe from Brent, from from
from the prices falling as far as they
did and started buying. And that's
interesting because this coming week we
have earnings reports from a couple of
these major software companies that sold
off. Adobe and Oracle are both
reporting. So, I think it'll be
interesting to see how their stocks
react to their earnings, whether people
are reacting to the actual substance of
the earnings or fears around AI, and
what the companies say on their earnings
calls about, you know, how they're
incorporating AI into their own software
because that's sort of the counter
narrative to the AI will replace
software. Um, and, you know, anything
else they say to sort of position
themselves more positively for the long
term.
>> Adobe and Oracle are both really
interesting. Oracle is interesting
because Oracle is really, I think, in
the market's focus because of how much
it is investing in AI because remember
Oracle kind of spans both enterprise
software and also sort of
infrastructure, the stuff that companies
will need to use AI data centers and and
whatnot. And Oracle has been spending
enormous, enormous amounts of money and
has been borrowing. And so, investors
are really focused on that company's
indebtedness and also its free cash flow
measures. Can Oracle produce the kind
of, you know, regular cash flow that it
will need to finance this? And if it
doesn't, how will it then kind of gather
that money? So, that free cash flow and
financing question is really vital to a
lot of the companies in the AI complex
that are spending tons of money to
invest, right? Because the theory is
that if you don't put you don't put this
stuff in the ground now, it's going to
be too late in a couple of years. So,
spend every nickel available. And so,
the question is how many nickels are
available for company like Oracle.
Adobe, on the other hand, is, I think,
more of a question on like, "Look, this
is a company that sells tools to humans
to do things, right?"
>> And its products are so ingrained in the
world of design, video production, these
are like core tools. My husband is a
video director and he uses Adobe all day
long.
And this is like the software that's
like his lifeblood. The question is,
could that be replaced by something
else?
>> Right. Could you just ask, you know,
name your AI sort of agent of choice,
like, "Hey, can you can you
you know, take this person out of this
photo?" Or whatever, you know,
something.
And and it'll it'll do that, and you
don't need that subscription. So,
yeah, so Adobe I think is a real read on
that. And I think that earnings probably
give less clarity on that kind of thing.
Cuz really people are talking about,
what are these products, and what's this
company going to look like in a few
years. And and so that just plays out
more slowly. And of course, you know,
Adobe will talk about the ways that it
is integrating AI, the way that its
tools are still relevant in an age of
AI, how it can augment what you do with
AI. But, you know, that might just be
kind of a harder sort of message to
deliver to people versus, "Hey, you
know, we're
putting this we're opening this data
center, and we've signed up this many
people, and they're going to use it." I
mean, that's
>> Adobe's not opening data centers.
>> Yeah. So, so, so that's so that's why I
think those two earnings in particular
will be really interesting to look
through that lens as investors think
about how where this trade might go from
here.
>> Another thing that we might be hearing
more about this coming week, or at least
President Trump would like us to be
hearing more about, is the Clarity Act,
which is a piece of legislation that
he's been pushing Congress to pass
that's supposed to establish a
regulatory framework for digital assets
like stablecoin and Bitcoin.
Um but banks have been pushing back
because they don't want customers to be
or consumers to be able to
earn significant yield from holding
stablecoins, cuz that would put their
deposits at risk.
>> So, just a little bit of background. So,
the Genius Act, which was passed and
became law, and is was meant to sort of
create a regulatory framework for
stablecoins. That did say that a
stablecoin cannot pay yield. Right? So,
that's already in the law. However,
a lot of stablecoins will earn you
rewards.
>> Rewards, yeah.
>> You know, the broker will pay you
rewards. Now, is that a form of yield or
is that something different? That's the
argument that companies like Coinbase
are having with the banks and that has
so far derailed this legislation because
some people have inserted, I think it's
section 404 is like a, you know, clause
>> the section number.
>> Doing a little, you know,
you know, a little little light
lawyering here on the side. You know,
people are you know, that that that that
the banks are trying to get language
into this the Clarity Act that will like
as they say would close that loophole.
That you can't pay rewards
>> can't are basically the same as yield
from the bank's standpoint and you can't
do that. If the Genius Act already said
you can't do that, you shouldn't be able
to pay these rewards.
>> And why the banks care about it is that
they believe that that sort of reward
and yield is a competitor to to to
deposits.
>> I mean, and it is. Most banks aren't
really paying very high yields for
savings right now.
>> The reason that's relevant to to Bitcoin
and sort of getting into this larger
conversation is that people feel like
one thing that has been dogging Bitcoin
because Bitcoin has failed to act like a
safe harbor. If it is digital gold, it
has not kept up with physical gold
>> Right.
>> in recent months as we've seen.
>> Despite the fact that there is a finite
amount of Bitcoin out in the universe.
>> And one thing people kind of have
pointed to is increasing worries that
the Clarity Act will not go forward. And
the Clarity Act by the way has other
provisions that have to do with like
what you know, what is a digital
commodity, where can they trade,
>> Mhm.
>> you know, making sure to say that those
are not securities and so they're not
SEC regulated, they're CFTC regulated,
etc. So, so there's a lot of important
stuff about just like the legal
framework and what kind of legal
obligations you have to say where is
this
coin coming from, blah blah blah.
Anyway, so so there's a lot of
really important kind of underpinnings
to the future of of of of crypto markets
within that legislation. And so people
say that's one thing that's been sort of
kind of haunting the Bitcoin market. The
>> Meaning that it hasn't passed yet
>> and once it does pass, this will sort of
solidify the foundation underneath
Bitcoin, allowing it to emerge from the
crypto winter.
>> Yeah. So, to have that conversation, we
spoke with Marion Laboure. She is a
senior strategist and managing director
at Deutsche Bank. And she writes
research notes about what is going on in
crypto, about what's happening with
Bitcoin,
and the broader sort of payments
landscape and other things. She looks at
stable coins quite a bit.
>> But tell us, before we get to that
conversation with Marion, we want to
hear from you listeners about how you
are investing and how you've changed
your portfolio, if at all, since the US
strikes on Iran. Have you started buying
gold? Have you, you know,
bought oil or tried to get exposure to
oil? Have you moved into defense stocks?
Have you sat tight and just waited it
out? We'd love to hear more from you, so
please send us an email at
takeontheweek@wsj.com.
>> All right. Well, we're going to get to
that conversation with Marion about
Bitcoin, stable coins, and the world of
crypto after the break.
All right, welcome back. We are joined
by Marion Laboure. She is a senior
strategist and managing director at
Deutsche Bank. Marion, welcome to the
show.
>> Thank you very much. Very glad to be
here.
>> For a long time, I think the the tagline
that Bitcoin had was digital gold,
right? That it was a
a commodity in the way that gold is.
There's a limited supply of it, and it's
something that will hold its value over
a long period of time. It's kind of
inflation-proof. People thought of it as
maybe, you know, something to turn to
when times were risky. And there were
times when that seemed to hold up, days
when gold would go up, Bitcoin would go
up. But over those last 6 months, you've
been talking about that period of time
since last October when Bitcoin has,
you know, gone down significantly in
price from well over 100,000 to to now
in the 60, 70,000 range.
Gold is of course been surging.
So, do you think that we can put to bed
the idea that Bitcoin is digital gold,
or is there something else that's
breaking that correlation right now?
>> I think these days we can't say Bitcoin
is digital gold any longer. It used to
be the case, but clearly as as you
mentioned earlier,
gold has been outperforming last year. I
mean, it was over 60% up in 2025. So, a
record performance for gold. And if I
look at the few underlying reasons for
that, it's because some central banks,
especially the BRICS, have been buying a
lot of gold. We had some geopolitical
uncertainty as well. It was still
considered as a safe asset. And for
these reasons, we've seen a record
performance for gold. Last year, for
Bitcoin, it was not the case. Bitcoin
was down by over 6% in 2025.
>> You've said that you don't see Bitcoin
as a means of payment. It's not a
currency, but stablecoins are. What is
the distinction there? And, you know,
why would you differentiate between the
two?
>> I'm an economist by training, so I like
to define digital assets
and currency. And the way we used to
define a currency is when it's a store
value,
a mean of payment, and a unit of
account. And if I look at
Bitcoin,
I think we agree that it's not very
stable. It's very volatile. We cannot
pay with Bitcoin. It's not accepted
everywhere. If I want to pay for a
coffee in London, it's going to be very
very difficult. So, I don't see Bitcoin
as a mean of payment. I don't see
Bitcoin as a currency. I don't see
Bitcoin as money. It's the way I see it,
uh, it's not as a currency, it's as a
crypto asset. The way I see stablecoin,
it's very different. So, a stablecoin
have been uh, the idea of stablecoin is
to create a cryptocurrency which is
stable.
To make uh,
your currency stable, we have four
different ways. Uh, we can peg them uh,
via an algorithm. We can peg them uh,
via other cryptocurrencies.
Uh, we can peg them uh,
on commodities or securities or we can
peg them
on uh, currencies. Uh, a basket of
currencies or only one currency. And if
we look at the stablecoin market these
days, we have 99% of stablecoins which
are pegged one to one to the USD.
Mhm. So, if I look at 99% of the
stablecoins which are pegged on the USD,
uh, I would say that these stablecoins
are uh,
not very volatile. They are They are
They are relatively stable. And uh, we
could we can use them as a store value
and as a means of payment uh, for some
objects. So, I would see them as money
but privately issued. They are not
issued by a central bank. They are
issued by uh, private uh, entities,
private companies.
>> When when you talk to investors um, and
you talked mostly to institutional
investors, right? Where do they see
Bitcoin fitting into their portfolios?
Is it something that is treated like
risky? Like, oh, it might go up, it
might not. Is it treated as something
that's not correlated? Like, how would
you say they approach it?
>> I'm talking to
companies uh,
on the sell side, buy side
uh, every day. And the way they are
seeing Bitcoin, so
you have two types of investors. Those
who don't like Bitcoin because it's
based uh, on nothing. They don't believe
in the long-term. They will never invest
in cryptocurrencies and they will never
invest in Bitcoin.
And there are those investors,
especially I would say the younger
generations of investors who see some
potential to invest in cryptocurrencies.
Not all cryptocurrencies, but I would
say
when I look at the big
buy-side
managers, they mostly invest in the top
10 cryptocurrencies
and most of them are seeing some
long-term potential in that even if they
are backed by nothing again.
And they tend to invest between 2 to 5%
of their asset under management.
>> For Bitcoin to have a long-term
potential value,
does that mean that it would need to
actually move from being an asset as
you've described it to being a currency?
>> It depends to who you talk to.
If you talk to
CFOs, treasurers, the more traditional
industry, the way they are seeing
cryptocurrencies is more like uh
it's more like a different asset class
which is traded. They don't see Bitcoin
as a currency. They don't see Bitcoin as
gold or digital gold. But the way they
see it is more as an asset which is
maturing over time. But it takes it
takes time and it takes more time than
most people had anticipated. And if I
look at again this big picture market
cap because I keep hearing that the
market cap has been declining a lot and
significantly which is absolutely true.
But if we look at what happened since
2023,
prices doubled in 2024, doubled again in
2025.
And now
I mean we are still around we are
at the time we are talking we are around
like 67,000
which is
still huge compared to where we were in
2020 by the way.
>> You've tracked ETFs as well. Obviously
you mentioned that that the launch of
Bitcoin ETFs, you know, tradeable, easy
to buy ETFs here in the United States as
a big moment for for Bitcoin. I remember
the run up to that and and the the price
action
that that that we saw.
And the flows were pretty significant,
but you've also been tracking some
outflows from those ETFs of late. Would
you say that that's kind of an echo of
the pricing in Bitcoin or could that
possibly be a driver as investors,
retail investors maybe reallocate a
little bit?
>> it's probably both and actually
and what I found pretty interesting
because
we we mentioned we keep mentioning
Bitcoin, but actually I mean if I if I
if I look at the payment industry and
again we've just we've just said that
Bitcoin is not a mean of payment, but if
I looked at what happened in the payment
industry, it's quite similar to what
what happened for Bitcoin.
During COVID everyone was on the payment
industry because payments were becoming
more digital. And Bitcoin surged as well
at that time and what we are seeing over
the past six months and so on, it's a
big decline in terms of payment stock as
well which is quite similar to what is
going on for for digital assets as well.
>> Of course we're looking at disruptions
in all kinds of industries right now
from AI and to some extent that applies
to payments as well, you know, will
agents be doing all of our buying and so
you don't need to use your credit card
etc. But but I wonder too, do you think
that there's an element of stablecoin
kind of disruption to payments that's
driving some of the weakness in payment
stocks. Because I did I did notice that
actually um I'm just checking the the
the the action now. So, Circle, uh which
is a US company that issues one of the
largest stablecoins, USDC, their stock
has actually done pretty well this year.
It wasn't you know, it's been up and
down a little bit, but after their most
recent earnings report, uh it seemed
like investors were really excited about
sort of the the growth of of stablecoins
in payments. And so, do you think that
that to some extent the the
decline we've seen in most payment
stocks
is part of that being driven by
excitement about stablecoins kind of
coming into the mainstream and
disrupting some of those companies?
>> I wouldn't say that's the key reason,
but uh it it it's might be part of the
part part of the reason as well. Because
when I look at stablecoin, I mean, it
used to be a huge topic, and it's still
a huge topic, by the way.
Uh but uh again, stablecoins, when we
look at the numbers and the use cases,
we have over 80% of uh stablecoins which
are used uh for crypto trading. Uh so,
it's not payment, it's for crypto
trading. But in terms of transactions, I
mean, we we have a record number of
transactions.
But And now, if I look at the payment uh
retail payment, it's only 2% of the
transactions that we have uh for
stablecoins. So, it it's still a small
amount.
>> I'm glad you brought up that the role
that crypto trading plays in
stablecoins, cuz I think so far that's
been part of the driver of the growth of
stablecoins, which did, you know,
increase in value pretty significantly
last year. USDC, Circle's stablecoin, I
think I think the circulation increased
70% plus in 2025.
How much of the big increase in
stablecoin usage has been driven by the
increase in price of Bitcoin, you know,
that surge to over 100,000 last year?
And do you think that some of the air
might come out of stable coins if
cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin kind of
don't if there's a long winter as people
say for for those prices.
Do you think that that could sort of
restrain the growth of stable coins
where we're starting to see stable coins
kind of have a little bit of their own
momentum? Maybe that 2% of payments you
mentioned maybe becomes three, four, and
starts to drive it.
>> I I think it's kind of both because with
the way I see the genius act or the
genius act clearly
emphasize stable coins as a mean of
payment which which which should be
a catalyzer by the way for the industry
as a mean of payment. Having said that,
yes, we still have over 80% of the
transactions which are
to invest in crypto. So, it's still a
huge share.
But,
more and more companies are looking to
adopt stable coins. I'm thinking about
Walmart. I'm thinking about Amazon. We
have many announcements these days of
companies trying to include the stable
coin solutions.
We had Swiss as well which is working on
a solution as well.
So, I really see the genius act by the
way as a genius idea because
the US decided to advance the genius act
probably because 99% of stable coins are
pegged to the USD. So, it's
and most emerging economies
are using stable coins. So, it's mostly
the emerging economies which are using
stable coins these days.
We don't have a lot of use cases in
Europe
and not much in the US.
>> Do you think investors should think
differently about stable coins and
Bitcoin? That that may maybe in their
minds they kind of think of them all as
part of crypto and maybe they're high on
crypto or low on crypto. But, do you
think it's at this point enough
reason for an investor to say, "You know
what? Okay, maybe the price of Bitcoin
will go down. Maybe it will kind of stay
here for a long time, but I can be
bullish about stable coins." Do you
think that someone can separate those
things in their mind as an investor?
>> I think we should. First of all, because
stable coins, I mean, those are pegged
to the to the dollar. They are they are
broadly stable, so you don't invest in a
stable coin for for for for for profit
because they should be more or less
stable.
Uh
And the way
I tend to see stable coins is again, a
stable coin is
privately issued currency. And
which is
which can be used as a means of payment.
Uh
so, very different. The way I see
Bitcoin again, it's a crypto asset
where you can believe in price increase
or you can say that it's based on
nothing. The value is based on wishful
thinking. Because when when we look at
this
the value of Bitcoin, I still think part
of the valuations we had, especially end
of last year when we were around
$120,000,
it was based on some fundamental
factors.
And it was also partly based on wishful
thinking. The fact that people still
expect the price to be higher. They
continue to
to increase the exposure to Bitcoin, but
it's based on nothing. It's like a
speculative
way of seeing Bitcoin.
>> All right. Well, we're going to take a
quick break. When we come back, we're
going to have one more question for
Marion Laboure of Deutsche Bank.
>> Welcome back, Marion.
So, there are some new laws that you
mentioned earlier, including the Clarity
Act. Do you think that
laws like that will help bring this
crypto winter that we're experiencing to
an end?
>> At some point I would say it was kind of
the wild west
and we had more and more
clarity, certainty in Europe. Mica was
implemented in 2024.
So
in Europe Mica is covering most digital
assets.
In the US
the genus act was I would say that the
first legislation that the US
agreed on but it was purely and only
covering stable coin. So the clarity act
is is covering digital currencies which
is needed and expected to have a
positive impact on the industry. And yes
on regulation I mean
when you look at the traditional banking
sector they are heavily regulated
so to have like a clear framework, a
clear regulatory framework will
certainly lead
to more
clarity
and will probably drive
drive adoption.
>> Marianne, thanks so much for joining us.
We had a pretty wide ranging discussion
about the crypto verse there and I know
that's something that there's a lot of
mystery but also a lot of interest in
with investors. So thanks for taking the
time to to walk us through it.
>> Thank you very much. It was a pleasure
to join you.